Our gospel lesson this morning comes from John's gospel.
We'll be reading from John chapter 17, verses one through three.
I invite you now to stand as you're able and body or in spirit for the reading of today's gospel lesson.
After Jesus had spoken these words, he looked up to heaven and said, Father, the hour is come, glorify your son so that your son may glorify you, since you have given him authority over all people to give eternal life to all whom have given him.
And this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Thanks be to God.
This past summer when our son Thomas graduated from high school, we took our family trip.
We wanted with both of our children that graduated from high school.
give them the option to travel wherever it is that they would like to go into experience.
I'm a big believer that experiences matter a whole lot more than physical gifts because physical gifts, you know, they tear up, they rot, you know, what did Jesus say?
Don't lay up treasures on earth where molds can eat and rust can destroy.
So all the cool stuff that you got for Christmas five years ago, do you still have it?
Do you still use it?
Do you still enjoy it?
Maybe.
But maybe not.
So physical things can be destroyed or can be torn up, can fall apart.
But experiences, memories, they stick with you.
So my son, when Thomas, he wanted our son, he wanted to go to Montreal, go to Canada.
He's always loved Canada, and particularly Montreal because he took French.
It's going to be a good chance to try out the French.
He learned
in high school.
And so we went, and we had a great time.
Montreal's a very cool town, right on the river.
Just really neat.
And we are a musical family.
Everyone in my family sings our play as an instrument, except for me.
I appreciate music.
I just have no talent.
My children play, my wife sings.
I'm along for the ride and enjoying the entire time.
So we actually had two pretty cool
musical experiences in Canada.
One was in Toronto, we went to the symphony and saw the symphony play underneath Star Wars, and that's always cool to go to a movie and see a live orchestra play the soundtrack or their music of a movie.
That's always fun.
We've seen a couple of those, but of course, seeing Empire Strikes Back was fair than that.
That was in Toronto, but in Montreal, Montreal was cool.
It was cool because they were
an incredibly talented orchestra.
The music was amazing.
It was so good.
But they had a guest musician there from South Africa.
And he played some of his instruments from South Africa.
He sang.
He chanted.
And it was one of those moments
When you're just thankful, you feel an overwhelming sense of gratitude that you were able to be present in that moment.
Have you ever been there in a moment where maybe during the moment, but after the moment, you look back and you just say, I am just so, so thankful
that I was able to experience this.
That's how I felt when I left the orchestra.
I just was thinking, how did I get the honor to be present here?
I've had that experience several times.
Kids, senior trips with Sarah, we went to New York City, and a lot of cool things in New York City, but for me, the coolest thing was a free museum we got to see at the New York
the library, which had the actual Winnie the Pooh.
The Washington's letters, the Death Dickens wrote in.
It had the Gutenberg Bible.
You had these things and you're like, what a gift to say that I got to experience that.
I hope we have all in our
in our lives had those moments.
For me, it happens a lot with music.
I just love music so much.
But it happens in other places.
If you've ever been, maybe at a ballgame and something amazing happens, you look back, you think, I was able to be there when that happened.
How cool is that?
Or an experience at a football game or a basketball game or seeing your kids accomplish something or in a religious moment when you
maybe in a sacred space and you experience something profound that all your heart can do is just say, thank you.
Thank you, God.
That's a beautiful thing.
Last Sunday, we started a series we're going to continue moving into Lent next month.
We're kind of talking about remembering our wives, why it is we do this, why we do what we do.
So last week,
We talked about being salt and light, how, as Christians, we're supposed to be salt and light, and what that means, we're supposed to be different than the world, different than the culture, we're supposed to just be different.
And so we talked about this concept of being salt and light.
And so what we're gonna, so that is kind of, if you will, the vision and the main purpose, the main point we're supposed to do is to be salt and light.
But the next few weeks, we're gonna talk specifically, well, how do we do that?
Because the church is really good about giving us instruction, hey, go do this.
And then not really helping us figure out, well, how is it exactly that we do this thing we're called to do?
So we're called to be Salt and Light, Matthew 5.
Sure thing, got it, on the chief, Salt and Light.
What does that mean?
What does it mean to be Salt and Light?
Today, we're gonna talk about what I feel like is the heart
of what Christianity truly means, what Christianity is truly about.
And in the next few weeks, we'll talk about how it is specifically that we live that out.
So we're supposed to be different.
Today, that was last week's day.
This is what Christianity is about.
The next few weeks, well, how do we live that out practically?
Today's John 17, John 17, one through three.
John 17 is a fascinating chapter in the Bible.
If you, I talked about this Wednesday night in Bible study,
We read the Bible the way we see it in our text of chapter and verse.
Well, the Bible was not originally written in chapter and verse.
The Bible was originally, it was just, it was a scroll.
It was one continuous writing.
And so the concept of chapters and verses didn't come about until later in the medieval period.
So what we see in John 17 is a continuation of what started in John 13.
So John 13, all the way through John 17, really should be understood in one movement, one movement.
And there's all kind of beautiful teaching there.
They're greatest commandments.
I am divine, you are the branches, my father's house are many mansions.
All of these things that we know and we love so well.
But it ends with John 17.
And John 17 is a prayer that Jesus prays for, that first off for the disciples,
And secondly, for us, because if we were to read all of John 17 and 3, we would see Jesus praying.
And he has several prayers, he prays for them.
And one of the primary prayers, he prays his unity, both for the disciples on the earth in that moment, but also for those of us, as he says, who would come to believe because of their testimony.
So for us, he prays for unity, and that's a big deal.
But this is a beautiful prayer where Jesus is praying for us as the church.
And so you want to know what Jesus is praying for?
He tells us.
And he tells us to me what I think is so powerful and so important for us to drill down into our heads.
He says, they may know eternal life.
Eternal life is knowing the Father and Jesus Christ who he has since.
It's eternal life.
Knowing God.
How do we know God?
We know in through Jesus.
Colossians 1 and 15 says, Jesus Christ, the visible image of the invisible God.
In other words, if you want to know the Father, you have to look to the Son.
The Scripture is full of all these powerful images of what
What Heaven talks about.
The Corinthians talks about how no mind can conceive the stuff God has in store for his followers.
Revelation, of course, has so many powerful images of eternity.
Streets of gold, you know, gold and pearly gates, all these powerful images of eternity.
And so there Scripture has all these different kind of concepts, what Heaven is like.
But I just, for me, for me, it's about this.
It's about knowing Jesus.
Friends, eternity.
Eternity is not a one day thing.
We will not wait till we get to heaven to experience eternal life.
Friends, we can.
We should.
We must experience eternal life now.
Eternal life is not a future thing that one day we may possibly experience, but eternal life is a thing that we now, that the power of the Holy Spirit can experience in this moment.
In this moment, we can experience eternal life.
Not a one day thing, but a today thing, a right now thing, a moment right now.
And so those moments we talked about earlier, the music,
When you experience something divine, you're getting a foretaste of eternal life.
You're getting the joy.
And so that's why Jesus breaks through the ordinary stuff of our life.
Jesus is not containable.
He is not, he is not something we can put in a box.
So friends, I think Jesus breaks through into our life in so many places and in so many ways.
The vowels says in James, every good gift comes from a father.
So if it is in your life, friends, if it is in your life and it is good, it is joyous.
You feel the spirit.
Even if you don't have the word for the spirit that moment, if you feel an experience, then you are experiencing the goodness and the grace of God.
You are getting a for taste of eternity.
You're getting a for taste.
You are experiencing eternal life.
What is eternal life?
To know the Father.
And Jesus Christ who he has sent.
Every time you experience that, you are experiencing eternal life.
Eternal life is not a one day thing.
It is a today thing.
It's something we can't experience today.
When you come to the altar to receive communion and you feel something, that's heaven passing through.
When the choir sings a beautiful anthem,
And you experience something that's heaven passing through.
When you filled the nudge of the Spirit to console a friend or to speak a word to stand up and you feel it, that's heaven passing through.
It's the eternal life to know the Father and the Son who we assent.
So I like to kind of put things in common language.
Our faith is about knowing Jesus.
And so I think that's an interesting thing to see
to tie that into Jesus' high priestly prayer, because if you were to read all of John 17, three, you'd see a moment early on where he's praying for the disciples, where he prays for their unity, for he says, I pray they meet one, maybe one is we are one.
And then later, when he talks about me and you, those of us who are here now, he says, he prays that we are one as he and the Father are one.
So he's praying for our unity.
And as I told Bob, so he was at night, there's a problem is that
particularly those that are in our tradition as Protestants, we're not good with unity.
Protestants by our very nature are not good with unity.
I mean, our entire movement as Protestants started by protesting and separating.
So we love to separate.
It's what we do.
I have a book in my office, handbook of religious denominations in the United States of America, and it's thick.
It's all these denominations just in the U.S.
Unity's hard, and it seems like Unity's one of the first things that we can sacrifice.
But Unity's hard, y'all, it's hard to be in relationship with each other, particularly in these polarized times where we find ourselves.
It's hard to be in relationship with people who may have different politics or theology.
It's really hard.
But as a friend of mine, Keith Keaton, now you know how many methods pastor is,
many times that relationships are a means of grace.
They sanctify us.
They make us holy.
It takes grace to be in relationship with those who are different than you are.
It takes grace to work with those who you disagree with.
It takes grace.
It takes God's Holy Spirit working through us to help us to do these things.
These relationships, they can sanctify us.
They can sanctify us.
And that's why knowing what eternal life is is so important because eternal life is Jesus, not the nominations, not political parties, not any of these things, but it's Jesus.
And that's our primary task to keep Jesus in the center of our life together.
I think of something
One of my favorite professors in seminary, Dr. Nick said, Dr. Nick was talking about it.
At the seminary I went to was very ecumenical over 30 denominations on campus, and we had a lot of theological disagreements.
Two of my best friends, one was an African-American Pentecostal, and one was Southern Baptist.
And I hear I was the United Methodist, so we had a lot of different theological perspectives.
And I remember Dr. Nick saying something one time he said,
If we put Jesus Christ in the center of our life together, our differences are beautiful.
But if we put our differences in the center of our life together, we will destroy each other.
Friends, it's only about Jesus.
That's what it's about.
It's about Jesus.
And if we keep Jesus,
in the center of our church, in the center of our family, in the center of our service, in the center of our community, in the center of all that we are, then we will find a way to be one because we will be experiencing the eternal life that comes through Jesus Christ.
He is eternal life.
He is life.
He is peace.
He is joy.
It is only always about Jesus.
It is only always
about Jesus.
When we keep Him in the center, it all works out.
It's always about Jesus.
I mentioned my love of music.
I wish I could, I wish I could sing or play, it'd be great.
I got nothing.
I can work the radio or pick up the playlist, but there's a,
There's a country, well, there's an Americana band, I guess, I think it's what it's called now.
It used to be called Alt Country, now it's called Americana, but I love Turnpike, Troubadours, love their music.
I got to see them a couple years back in Baton Rouge, actually.
And I don't know if I'd put it as one of those like, I've experienced God as some concerts for like, well, this is just, I'm honored to be here like the earlier one.
So I don't know that I would say this concert was quite to that level, but it was pretty good.
But they released a new album last year and they have a song there that I even kind of alluded to earlier in the sermon called, Heaven Passing Through.
And I want to read you the lyrics to this song.
I want to get it right.
The lyrics to this song, the chorus, rather, is this.
Come back from the dark somehow.
Find the living in the here and now.
Not a sign of a thundercloud following you.
Don't take it personal, the world don't turn around you.
Hold on to the moment like it's heaven passing through.
In our life, we are fortunate that there are moments where we experience heaven passing through.
We experience heaven passing through.
Because what is eternal life?
Knowing Jesus.
Knowing the Father and Jesus Christ who we assume, it's always about Jesus, only and always about Jesus.
Today, no matter where you find yourself, may you find these divine moments of heaven passing through.
And when we find that, may we know the gift that is,
eternal life.
In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, let us pray.